JUDY WOODRUFF: The trial
of comedian and actor
Bill Cosby got under way
in Pennsylvania today.
Cosby, who is now 79, has
been accused by more than 40
women of sexual assault over
the course of decades.
His legacy has been under
heavy attack in recent years.
But the charges are old and,
in many cases, the statute
of limitations has run out.
The Pennsylvania trial
is the only one to
go to criminal court.
If convicted, Cosby
could face prison time.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This case
dates back to 2004, when Cosby
is alleged to have assaulted
Andrea Constand, who was
then an employee at Temple
University's basketball program.
Prosecutors say Cosby
drugged and assaulted
Constand at his home.
Cosby has said he had a
consensual extramarital
relationship with her,
and has denied all
the allegations of assault
by numerous other women.
Cosby, who starred as a father
and family man in his popular
1980s sitcom, arrived at
court today with actress Keshia
Knight Pulliam, who played his
daughters on "The Cosby Show."
Maryclaire Dale of the
Associated Press has
long been covering the
case against Cosby.
She filed the motion that
unsealed an older deposition
that Cosby gave in a civil suit
that's now a key piece of
evidence in this trial.
She joins me now from
outside the courthouse in
Norristown, Pennsylvania.
Maryclaire, thank you
very much for being here.
I wonder if you just could
tell us, first off, from the
prosecution's stance in opening
statements today, lay out
the case that they laid
out against Cosby today.
MARYCLAIRE DALE,
Associated Press: Right.
The case opened
very strong today.
Lawyers on both sides
came out swinging.
The prosecution started by
talking about the key issues
in the case drugs, sex, and the
issue of consent.
They said that the accuser in
this case, Andrea Constand,
could not have given consent in
the case, given that Cosby,
by his own words, in his own
deposition, acknowledges giving
her three blue pills before he
went with her on a couch and
molested her, in her words.
Of course, he says that they
had consensual sex acts on
the couch that night, but the
prosecution says that she was
frozen, paralyzed by the pills
he gave her, unable to stop him,
resist, refuse, or give consent.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And from the
opening statements on Cosby's
defense, what's the sense of how
they're going to try to
rebut these allegations?
MARYCLAIRE DALE: They're
pointing out discrepancies
in the women's various
statements over time,
saying that the details have
changed, the dates have changed.
In fact, for example, in
the Constand statement
to police, she initially
recalled the incident
occurring in March of 2004,
but later told investigators
it was January of 2004.
So they're pointing out, you
know, time discrepancies,
other details, and
they're saying that both
women had consensual
relationships with Cosby.
They said that Cosby and
Andrea Constand had a romantic
relationship that spans at least
several evenings, that
she had gone to the
casino in Connecticut
with him on one trip,
had been with him on
several nights for
various social occasions,
and, again, that it was
a romantic,
consensual situation.
Again, the prosecution is
saying that there is no way she
can give consent after having
taken these pills.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
Andrea Constand's case
is obviously echoed by
dozens of women who have
said over the years that Bill
Cosby did similar acts to them.
I understand that the
first witness today was
one of those other women.
Can you tell us what
she testified to today?
MARYCLAIRE DALE: Yes, the first
witness called by prosecutors
was the -- what we call a prior
bad act accuser.
She -- her name
is Kelly Johnson.
She worked for Cosby's
agent at the William
Morris agency in the '90s.
And she described a similar
situation as to Constand, a day
where she says she was beckoned
to Cosby's bungalow at the
Bel Air Hotel in about 1996,
and says he forced her to take
a pill, a white pill, and then
that she says left her, again,
dizzy, falling in and out
of consciousness.
She says she later woke
up, hours later, perhaps
the next morning, on a
bed with Cosby, where
he was forcing her
to do a sex act.
But she says she really
resisted, tried not to
take the pill, tried
to put it under her
tongue, only to have him
look at her tongue and
insist on her swallowing it.
She says she feared that she
would lose her job that she
liked quite a bit at the William
Morris agency.
The defense
questioned her timing.
They said that there
is a deposition that
exists, I believe in a
worker's compensation
lawsuit she filed, in which
she says that she went to
the hotel with Cosby in 1990,
so six years apart on that.
They really questioned
her on other details.
And she says -- for instance,
they said, didn't Cosby give
you $400 for your grandmother's
doctor's appointment?
She didn't testify to that.
She says she never remembers
him giving her any money,
although she does remember him
referring her grandmother
to a doctor's appointment.
So, again, they're pointing out
the consistencies, some small,
some maybe less small, in their
statements, and while
the prosecution is trying
to say to the jury,
you really have to look
and try to focus on the
differences between the man and
the actor you saw on TV and the
roles that he created.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I
understand that Cosby himself
will not be testifying.
But the -- in an earlier
deposition that Cosby
gave -- this is the
deposition that you helped
unearth -- I understand will be
a key piece of evidence here.
Can you tell us what
is in that deposition?
MARYCLAIRE DALE: Right.
It was a deposition that he gave
in 2005 and 2006, when Andrea
Constand filed a civil lawsuit,
after prosecutors, at
the time, decided not to
charge Cosby in the case.
So, in that deposition,
Cosby says that he,
again, acknowledges
having a long series of
relationships with young women,
actresses, waitresses, flight
attendants, various women.
Again, he says they were -- he
considers them to be consensual.
Many of those women have now
come forward to say that they
believe they were drugged
and molested.
One of the big highlights
from that deposition was Cosby
acknowledging that, in the '70s,
he got quaaludes, a very
powerful sedative that
the U.S. later banned.
He says he obtained them
from his doctor, at least
seven prescriptions.
He says he got them in his
own name, but collected them
to give to women before sex.
And that was one of the
things that led prosecutors
in 2015, when this came
to light, to reopen
the case and realized they
still had time to charge Cosby.
They arrested him days
before the statute of
limitations ran in late 2015.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
All right, Maryclaire
Dale of the Associated
Press, thanks so much.